.TH lbrc 1 "August 2005"  "Version 1.0.0" "1.0.0"
.SH NAME
lbrc \- Configuration file for execution of lb

.SH DESCRIPTION

The
.B lbrc
file controls the way that the
.B lb
program generates reports.  The lbrc file defines the sections and
arithmatic for the various accounts that it will be reporting on.
There is a default configuration file that is compiled into the
.B lb
program, in case you do not define an lbrc file yourself.

.SH SEARCH PATH

The
.B lb
and
.B lbgui
programs will search for the following files (in order) before falling
back on the default configuration:

.IP 1:
 ./.lbrc
.IP 2:
 ~/.lbrc

.P
If no configuration file is found, a default one is supplied.  See the
.B EXAMPLE
section.

.SH CONFIGURATION

The lbrc file is like a blueprint for your report.  The report will be
ouput in roughly the same order that you had in your configuration
file.  Blank lines and lines that begin with '#' are ignored.  There
are only two types of configuration command:  
.B section
and
.B report.

.SS section

A section is a reporting of each individual account.  It finds
accounts that match your criteria, and then groups them together.  The
line looks like this:
.P
section <"n"> <"Label"> <"Match"> [-]1

Each field is described thus:

.TP 12
.BI section
Denotes that we're defining a section
.TP 12
.BI ``n''
A
.I variable
name to be used later in a
.B report
field.  Use a single letter.  Case sensitive.
.TP 12
.BI ``Label''
A string that will announce the summary of these files (at the bottom
line).  E.g. if these are 'expense accounts' you would probably want
to use something like ``Total Expenses:''.
.TP 12
.BI ``Match''
Matches this string with the name of each account in the budgets and
reports.  If the first part of the actual account matches this string,
then the account will be reported in this section.  Note that accounts
should not appear in more than one section.
.B IMPORTANT!
You should always have the last 'section' be "", which makes it a
default handler.  Reports
.I will not
be reported twice.  This will print out all accounts that have not
been reported in previous sections.
.TP 12
.BI [-]1
This should either be '1' or '-1'.  If the account is an
income type of account, the value should be '1'.  If the account is an
expense type of account, the value should be '-1'.  This way, when the
report comes on an account, the values are generally spit out as
non-negative numbers (which is easier to understand).

.SS report

A report gives a sort of bottom line statement (like ``YE OLDE BOTTOM
LINE:'') and performs a little arithmatic.  The format of a 'report'
line is like this:
.P
report <"Label"> <"sums">

.TP 12
.BI report
Denotes that we're defining a report.
.TP 12
.BI ``Label''
An arbitrary introduction to the line.
.TP 12
.BI ``sums''
A very simple equation.  It only handles + and -, no parenthesis.
E.g. if you have defined sections a, b, and c previously, then you may
enter the equation as ``a-b-c'' or ``a+b-c'', etc.  You may not get
any more complicated than that.  E.g. ``a-(c-b)'' will give
unpredictible results.

.SH EXAMPLES

.SS The default settings

When no lbrc file is found, this is the file that is used:

.PD 0
.P
section "a" "Total Income:" "Income:" 1
.P
section "b" "Total Expenses:" "" -1
.P
report "Bottom line:" "a-b"

All accounts that begin with ``Income:'' (E.g. ``Income:Salary'' and
``Income:Other'') will be reported in this section.  Their values will
be summed at the bottom of the section with a label that says ``Total
Income:''.  Since it's income, we use the 1 to denote a positive
cash-flow.  The second section uses the default ``Match'' parameter,
so it will report 
.I every
account that was not reported as Income.  Presuming that they are all
expenses (a negative cash flow), we indicate with a -1 at the end of
the line.

The ``Bottom line'' report merely shows how much you have left over
(or how far you have fallen behind) when the expenses (``b'') are
subtracted from the income (``a'').

.SS My settings

Here's the lbrc file that I use:

.PD 0
.P
section "a" "Income Accounts:" "Income:" 1
.P
section "b" "Savings Accounts:" "Assets:Current Assets:Savings Account" -1
.P
section "c" "Debts:" "Liabilities:" -1
.P
section "d" "Expenses:" "" -1
.P
report "Bottom line (without debts):" "a-b-c-d"

This is about the same as above, but I have certain types of accounts
(savings and debts) laid out in their own sections.

.SH "SEE ALSO"

.BR lb (1),
.BR lbgui (1)

.SH AUTHOR

G. M. Beddingfield <gabriel@teuton.org>
